# Auth Helpers

Helper functions for working with authentication in Apollo.

---

Nuxt Apollo provides three (3) auth helpers which can be easily plugged into your authentication flow to interface with configured Apollo clients.

## `getToken`

Retrieve the auth token token for the specified client. 

This adheres to the [`apollo:auth` hook](/recipes/authentication#auth-hook). and will attempt to automatically retrieve the token from the `apollo:auth` hook.

```ts
const { getToken } = useApollo()

const token = getToken()

const otherToken = getToken('<client_name>')
```

### `getToken` Reference

- `client`: The Apollo client who's token should be retrieved.

## `onLogin`

Used to apply the given auth token to the specified Apollo client. This is required if your GraphQL API expects authentication to be passed via a HTTP header.

By default, this function will reset the Apollo client cache and re-execute all queries, this behavior can be averted by passing `false` as the third parameter (`skipResetStore`).

```ts
const { onLogin } = useApollo()

function handleLogin() {
  // your login flow...

  onLogin(token)
}
```

### `onLogin` Reference

- `token`: The token to be applied.

- `client`: The Apollo client to authenticate.
  - Default: `default`

- `skipResetStore`: Whether to skip resetting the Apollo client cache.
  - Default: `false`

## `onLogout`

Used to remove the auth token from the specified Apollo client.

```ts
const { onLogout } = useApollo()

function handleLogout() {
  // your logout flow...

  onLogout()
}
```

### `onLogout` Reference

- `client`: The Apollo client to de-authenticate.
  - Default: `default`

- `skipResetStore`: Whether to skip resetting the Apollo client cache.
  - Default: `false`
